[{"title":"Specialized Decision Surface and Disentangled Feature for Weakly-Supervised Polyphonic Sound Event Detection",
"author":"Liwei Lin, Xiangdong Wang, Hong Liu, Yueliang Qian",
"note":"This paper is under review.",
"link":"https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.10091",
"abstract":"In this paper, a special decision surface for the weakly-supervised sound event detection (SED) and a disentangled feature (DF) for the multi-label problem in polyphonic SED are proposed. We approach SED as a multiple instance learning (MIL) problem and utilize a neural network framework with a pooling module to solve it. General MIL approaches include two kinds: the instance-level approaches and embedding-level approaches. We present a method of generating instance-level probabilities for the embedding level approaches which tend to perform better than the instance-level approaches in terms of bag-level classification but can not provide instance-level probabilities in current approaches. Moreover, we further propose an SDS for the embedding-level attention pooling. We analyze and explained why an embedding-level attention module with SDS is better than other typical pooling modules from the perspective of the high-level feature space. As for the problem of the unbalanced dataset and the co-occurrence of multiple categories in the polyphonic event detection task, we propose a DF to reduce interference among categories, which optimizes the high-level feature space by disentangling it based on class-wise identifiable information and obtaining multiple different subspaces. Experiments on the dataset of DCASE 2018 Task 4 show that the proposed SDS and DF significantly improve the detection performance of the embedding-level MIL approach with an attention pooling module and outperform the first place system in the challenge by 6.6 percentage points."},

{"title":"Guided learning for weakly-labeled semi-supervised Sound event detection",
"author":"Liwei Lin, Xiangdong Wang, Hong Liu, Yueliang Qian",
"note":"This paper is accepted by ICASSP2020 poster.",
"link":"https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.02517",
"abstract":"We propose a simple but efficient method termed Guided Learning for weakly-labeled semi-supervised sound event detection (SED). There are two sub-targets implied in weakly-labeled SED: audio tagging and boundary detection. Instead of designing a single model by considering a trade-off between the two sub-targets, we design a teacher model aiming at audio tagging to guide a student model aiming at boundary detection to learn using the unlabeled data. The guidance is guaranteed by the audio tagging performance gap of the two models. In the meantime, the student model liberated from the trade-off is able to provide more excellent boundary detection results. We propose a principle to design such two models based on the relation between the temporal compression scale and the two sub-targets. We also propose an end-to-end semi-supervised learning process for these two models to enable their abilities to rise alternately. Experiments on the DCASE2018 Task4 dataset show that our approach achieves competitive performance"},

[{"title":"Multi-Branch Learning for Weakly-Labeled Sound Event Detection",
"author":"Yuxin Huang, Xiangdong Wang, Liwei Lin, Hong Liu, Yueliang Qian",
"note":"This paper is accepted by ICASSP2020 poster..",
"link":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.09661",
"abstract":"There are two sub-tasks implied in the weakly-supervised SED: audio tagging and event boundary detection. Current methods which combine multi-task learning with SED requires annotations both for these two sub-tasks. Since there are only annotations for audio tagging available in weakly-supervised SED, we design multiple branches with different learning purposes instead of pursuing multiple tasks. Similar to multiple tasks, multiple different learning purposes can also prevent the common feature which the multiple branches share from overfitting to any one of the learning purposes. We design these multiple different learning purposes based on combinations of different MIL strategies and different pooling methods. Experiments on the DCASE 2018 Task 4 dataset and the URBAN-SED dataset both show that our method achieves competitive performance."},

{"title":"Guided Learning convolution system for DCASE 2019 task4",
"author":"Liwei Lin, Xiangdong Wang, Hong Liu, Yueliang Qian",
"note":"This paper is accepted by DCASE2019 Workshop oral presentation.",
"link":"https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.06178",
"abstract":"In this paper, we describe in detail the system we submitted to DCASE2019 task 4: sound event detection (SED) in domestic environments. We employ a convolutional neural network (CNN) with an embedding-level attention pooling module to solve it. By considering the interference caused by the co-occurrence of multiple events in the unbalanced dataset, we utilize the disentangled feature to raise the performance of the model. To take advantage of the unlabeled data, we adopt Guided Learning for semi-supervised learning. A group of median filters with adaptive window sizes is utilized in the post-processing of output probabilities of the model. We also analyze the effect of the synthetic data on the performance of the model and finally achieve an event-based F-measure of 45.43% on the validation set and an event-based F-measure of 42.7% on the test set. The system we submitted to the challenge achieves the best performance compared to those of other participates."}]
